# 20250624

Here is a list of changes to make:

1) I manually moved some files around. Most our work is now done in sanpy/kym. Reduce your reliance on simple_scatter.
2) I do not like how tif_file_backend creates self.df by constructing it in _scan_files(). I would like the columns in self.df created when the class is instantialed. The goal is to be able to cleanly add and remove columns as development proceeds.
3) the api for tif_file_backend has too many functions like: get_checked_files(), get_checked_folders(), get_checked_grandparents(), get_checked_great_grandparents(). Can you update the API to have fewer functions? One suggestion is the have a get(er) function where the user of the API would pass a parameter they want to get, for example: files, folders, grandparents, great_grandparents.
4) The same goes for the following API functions that could be combined: set_file_checked, set_folder_checked, set_grandparent_checked, set_great_grandparent_checked
5) In both (3) and (4) above I want you to write code that is readable and easy to modify or expand in the future.
6) I moved tif_tree_widget.py into kym/interface/kym_file_list folder. When the tif_tree_widget is instantiated, I want all disclosure triangles open.
 
1) Add a button to save state using tif_tree_widget saveState()
2) remove all methods you flagged as "Legacy method" in tif_file_backend. If they are being called by other code, refactor that to use the newer API.
3) I prefer to import packages from sanpy rather than modifying the path. I don't like your use of, for example, "sys.path.insert(0, os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__)))))". I added empty __init__.py files to the folders and this should not be needed.
4) I added code for double click in ExampleWidget. Can you make that example widget somehow keep track of open widgets. The ExampleWidget should have a main QMenu called "Windows", when user select one the corresponding widget should be brought to the front. Not sure the best system for this?

1) I fixed an error in TifTreeWidget, saveState() by removing the parameter. You had it as a str type but QPushButton clicked passes a boolean.
2) Add a QStatus message when the csv file is saved. Just show the csv filename.
3) Add tooltips to all QPushButton and QCheckBox widgets.
4) In tif_tree_widget when user select context menu 'Plot ROIs', emit a new signal with the tifPath. Connect this signal to a slot in example_tif_tree and run the following code:
```
                from sanpy.kym.simple_scatter.colin_pool_plot import plotOneKym
                fig, ax = plotOneKym(_tifFile)
                from sanpy.kym.simple_scatter.colin_simple_figure import KymRoiMainWindow
                self._aWidget = KymRoiMainWindow(fig, ax)
                self._aWidget.show()
```

Rather than using self._aWidget, keep track of any number of widgets opened this way. In this case there does not need to be a menu with a list of widgets like we did for the "Windows" menu.
5) When running the GUI with example_tif_tree main(), turn on a dark qtdarktheme. pay attention to what need to be initialized before the QApplication

1) In tif_file_backend, when we load from csv. Make sure the "Repeat" column is some sort of int, it is currently a float. In addition, the state of the checkboxes is not loaded, they are all on.
2) I find the following code in TifFileBackend confusing. Can you make it easier to read and maintain and add comments about the steps.

```
mapping = update_df.set_index('full_path')[col]
                                # Update the main dataframe
                                self.df[col] = self.df['full_path'].map(mapping).fillna(self.df[col])
```

Furthermore, the current code is triggering the following FutureWarning:
```
FutureWarning: Downcasting object dtype arrays on .fillna, .ffill, .bfill is deprecated and will change in a future version. Call result.infer_objects(copy=False) instead. To opt-in to the future behavior, set `pd.set_option('future.no_silent_downcasting', True)`
```
3) When the GUI is started the "Toggle All" checkbox is unchecked but all the checkboxes are checked.


1) Check if the code in tif_file_backed, set_checked() is working? In particular, the following code is run when the user selects a checkbox but the bool value is not updated?
```
self.backend.set_checked('file', file_path, checked)
```
2) Make sure that when 'tif_file_backend_state' is saved, it shows a status update in example_tif_tree.
3) Change the title of 'Select Folder' to 'Load Folder' and add a ToolTip.
4) After working on the 'Toggle All' checkbox, I think it confuses and complicates the GUI. Can you remove the checkbox and all the code for the logic when it is selected/unselected by the user. But retain the ability to programatically control the all on/off checkbox state.
5) Once the "Toggle All" QCheckbox is removed,  put all buttons in the same row.

1) Make sure all buttons in example tif tree are in one row.
2) check that the save of 'tif_file_backend_state.csv' is working. I think during runtime, things like tif file selection is setting the boolean. The changes do not seem like that are saved to the file on user clicking 'Save State'.

1) The tif_file_backend is not saving the correct state when the user unchecks a tif file. Can you not modify code but give me feedback on how to solve this? The other issue is when we load the csv for the backend, the checkboxes are not getting set properly?

1) The status is not updating when user presses the 'Save State' button. I have asked for this multiple tmies!
2) Remove the "Third Level: OFF" and ON in the status update.
3) When user clicks on "Save State", the resultant csv file "tif_file_backend_state.csv" does not show the user unchecked a single file, like "20250331 ISAN R1 LS3 FCCP.tif". I have asked for this fix multiple times and need to get some guidance on how to tell you to fix it!

1) You seem to be having a really hard time with this. When the user clicks a tif file off in the GUI. The dataframe should be updated properly and on user clicking "Save State", the resultant csv file should have FALSE/False/false for the row corresponding to the tif file. This is not happening and I am frustrated with you. I still trust you.

# 20250625

I want you to create a python dataclass "TifInfo" that is similar to the existing class FileInfo. The TifInfo dataclass is meant to parse pieces of a tif file name into its different parts.
- Here are some example of tif file names:
    20250312 ISAN R1 LS1.tif
    20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS1.tif

- The dataclass should populate a number of dataclass member variable such as:
    "date", in this example it is 20250312. All file name will start with the date format yyyymmdd
    "cellid", in this example the cellid is "20250312 ISAN R1 LS1".
    "condition", In these example we have two conditions including "Control" and "FCCP". Other conditions that could exist in the name are like (Control, Ivab, Thap). Make a utility variable so we can set different possible condition names in the future. If none of the conditions names are in the filename then the files "condition" will default to control
    "region", in these examples "region" is ISAN. The potential regions are from (ISAN, SSAN. Like with condition, make a variable that allows us to specify possible region strings and expand them in the future.
    "repeat", this one is tricky. In these examples, repeat is 0. If you find the str "_0" in the name, parse a zfill(3) string to get the value for "repeat". For example, "_0001", "_0002", and "_0003" whould be repeat of 1, 2, 3. Make sure you only look for the patter starting with '_'. For example, you would not use "R1" or LS1" to extract "repeat"

- I want this code to be bullet-proof and to use logger.error when the tif file name does not match out requirements.
- I would also like a dataclass field call "error" that would hold any errors encountered in parsing (basically the string printed with logger.error).

Write unit tests for TifInfo. Include any file examples you like but make sure to include these:
    20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS1.tif
    20250312 SSAN R1 LS1.tif
    20250312 ISAN R1 LS1 FCCP.tif
    20250312 ISAN R1 LS1 Control.tif
    20250602 ISAN R1 LS1 Ivab.tif
    20250602 ISAN R1 LS1.tif

For each tif file in the test, check all dataclass fields are as expected using assert. For each file also log a human headable report (to the console).

It is often the case there is a type in the name where we have a '  ' or  '   ' instead of ' '. Can you update TifInfo to handle these cases? Also, update the unit test for these. My strategy would be to do str replace('   ', ' ') and replace('  ', ' ') before split(' ')

Can you move the unit test you created into kym/tests. Be sure to update the imports.

Also, don't use addpath at the top of the file, always use the standard python import syste. Everything we import will be from a python package.

Are the unit tests working? When I run "pytest -s sanpy/kym/tests/test_tifinfo.py" it finds 0 tests. Where did all your test file name examples go? Did you lose them when you copied the file to kym/tests

I moved the TifInfo class into a new file kym/tif_info.py. Can you update any imports that changed? I guess it is mostly in the new unit tests?

Add the proper python imports to the new file tif_info.py

Yesterday, you created class TifFileBackend. Can you refactor that class to use the new TifInfo class? Here are some details:
 - I still want to extract (parent, grandparent, great grandparent) from the folder hierarchy.
 - I want columns in the dataframe to be set from TifFile fields including 'region', 'condition', 'date', 'cellid'.
 - Try not to change the API but tell me if you think it is neccessary.
 - Make sure column repeat is int
 - Write a unit test for tif_file_backend and put it in kym/tests
 - Only use standard python inport, do not use addpath
 - If you see any issues for these requests, tell me the issue first before updating code and we can decide.

Now I am going to ask you to refactor TifTreeWidget to use the new code in TifFileBackend (now using TifFile). I also want TifTreeWindow refactor. I am not sure if any changes are needed? Try and run any tests for those two classes. Don't make any changes but layout what you plan on doing and I will ok it.

Saving from TifTreeWindow is not saving the state of checkboxes like show_folder,show_grandparent,show_great_grandparent (e.g. the columns in the df).
Yesterday, there was a problem between True vs true, something to do with boolean representations differing between numpy, pandas (and maybe json?). Can you fix this? Can we run a unit test on TifTreeWindow to see if checkbox state is correct on re-run after save?

I am still getting errors

1) python sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py"
2) uncheck some checkboxes
3) click to save the csv
4) in the saved file I can see the 0 values where I unchecked
5) rerun with
    python sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py

And I get the error:
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 324, in <module>
    main()
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 317, in main
    window = TifTreeWindow(path=default_path)
             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 57, in __init__
    self.initializeTreeWidget(self.default_path)
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 161, in initializeTreeWidget
    self.tree_widget = TifTreeWidget(self.backend, show_third_level=False, parent=self)
                       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_widget.py", line 67, in __init__
    self._populateTree()
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_widget.py", line 133, in _populateTree
    great_grandparent_item = QTreeWidgetItem([great_grandparent_name, "", ""])
                             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
TypeError: index 0 has type 'numpy.int64' but 'str' is expected
```

Can we hold off on my last request? I think I have some suggestions that will simplify the GUI and the backend.

Here are my suggestions:

(1) In the TifTreeWidget, we do not need checkboxes to toggle either date or region on and off
(2) All we want are checkboxes to toggle individual tif files on and off.

Given (1) and (2), refactor the backend and frontend.

Do not make changes but give me an overview of what you will do and then we can decide on an action!

When I run
```
python sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py
```

I get the error:
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 324, in <module>
    main()
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 317, in main
    window = TifTreeWindow(path=default_path)
             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 57, in __init__
    self.initializeTreeWidget(self.default_path)
  File "/Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/interface/kym_file_list/tif_tree_window.py", line 180, in initializeTreeWidget
    self.tree_widget.folderToggled.connect(self.onFolderToggled)
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
AttributeError: 'TifTreeWidget' object has no attribute 'folderToggled'. Did you mean: 'fileToggled'?
```

# 20250626

I want you to create a python logger using the built in logging.

- The logging is to be used across multiple python files such as tif_file_backend and tif_file for example but should be available for import from anywhere in our project.
- I want both console logging and file logging.
- For file logging I want to limit the log size to 1MB and to rollover the log file when its max size is reached.
- I want the log file to be saved in kym/kym.log
- Each time we log with, for example logger.info or logger.error, I want detailed information about where the log was issued (date, time, filename, function, line)
- In the console log we do not need date and time but it should be included in the file log.

Before you begin, can you suggest best practices where to save the log file. Is it good practice to save it in kym/kym.log?

In tif_file_backend _scan_files(), I would like the files sorted() as we walk a folder. Can you suggest how to do this and then we can decide to commit?

I want to get your feedback on making a QTableWidget from our tif_file_backend.py.
- I want to display the backend dataframe as a GUI table
- I want programatic control on hiding some df columns like relative_path and full_path
- I want the user to be abe to sort the table by clicking on a column name
- I am not sure if QTableWidget allows sorting by a column or if we need to use QTableView with a pyqt abstract model?

What are you thoughts?

That plan is good. I have some additional requirements. I would like all of your suggested 'potential enhancements' to be implemented including:

- Context menus for right-click actions
- Filtering by condition, region, etc.
- Export functionality
- Selection handling for bulk operations

The new widget should be in /kym/kym_file_list/tif_table_view.py. In the same folder as the existing tif_tree_widget.py

I want to be able to show a tif_table_view, class TifTableView. But it requires a backend TifFileBackend. Can you add a QTabWidget to tif_tree_window.py. This should have two tabs, one to display tif_tree_view and another to display tif_table_view. Give me an overview of this strategy and let me know if it makes sense...

I do not like how column indexes are sometimes hard coded. Like here "if item and column != 6". What are some strategies to make this more reusable?

I like your popup menus in the table view for  conditions, regions, and repeats. But as the user, when I select an item in the popup. For example condition "Control", the table filters correctly but the selected item does not show "Control", it still shows "All conditions"?

I want you to update the GUI in TifTreeWindow. In particular, I see createControls() which creates one "Load Folder" button. I want the other buttons labeled "Refresh" and "Save State" to be part of the controls. In general, I consider this a custom _topToolbar that will always be shown in the TifTreeWindow, regardless of the tab displayed (either Tree View or Table View).



Great! You did a really good job with that fairly complicated edit. I am not really looking at the code you are generating today. Should I be? Can you give 2-3 places in the code from today that might cause problems in the future?

Another question. Today you made changes to our tree and table views. This was mostly trying to abstract the use of indices versus column names. How can we offload some of this logic to the backend TifFileBackend? The tif file backend is in charge of creating a pandas dataframe (am I correct?). Can't we specify some information in the backend about our columns and have the fron end tif tree and table view do less work?

I really like the changes you just made, thank you! Can we work on how I might add a column to TifFileBackend? Can you suggest code to add a new "_random_" column that is populated with a random int from 0 to 100. I am curious if we need to update the table or tree widgets to show this new column? My goal is, no, we should not have ot update code in our pyqt widgets to show this new _random_ column.

Please comment out the code having to do with _random_. Leave it in place (just comment it out) so I can return to the code and add my own columns. Add any critical comments that might help me add columns in the future.

tif_table_view.py still has a "refresh" button at the bottom? Is this the same as "Refresh" in our window top tool bar?

In the same context, we do not need "Select All", "Deselect All", and "Invert Selection".

We also do not need export except I like the idea! Can you move export to a main menu like "File -> save table" or something. 

Please suggest before making changes.

# 20250627

I want you to make an application preferences window
- It should be in a file in kym/interface.
- It should be a pyqt window (maybe a dialog).
- I want standard OK and cancel buttons.
- In the window dialog, I want QWidgets grouped by QGroupBox.
- The widgets in a QGroupBox will be like QCheckBox, QComboxBox, and QLineEdit will be used to set Application preferences
- The preferences should be internally stored in a dict of dict with default values.
- The first group box will be 'Load Kymograph' and will contain a checkbox 'Olympus Export'
- The preferences dict wil have a key corresponding to that group box named 'Load Kymograph'. The dict in that key should store the state of the 'Olympus Export' checkbox.
- I want the preferences dict to be saved and loaded from a json txt file. When we load from json, we check our runtime prefereces dict and do not load keys/values that are not in our gold standard preferences dict.
- I want an application menu to show the preferences dialog. This should be a 'Settings...' menu in the main application menu.

All our work in sanpy/kym has been to create a standalone desktop GUI.
- The new entrypoint sanpykym is specified in the pyproject.toml
- Although this code lives inside sanpy/ which is the main package to 'pip install -e .', I would like the dependencies on sanpy/ (not sanpy/kym) to be kept to a minimum.
- I see that sanpy/kym does import
    from sanpy.interface.util import sanpyCursors
    from sanpy.interface.bDialog import yesNoCancelDialog
- I also know sanpy/kym is importing some sanpy/ objects in sanpy/kym/kymRoiAnalysis
    from sanpy.bAnalysis_ import bAnalysis
    from sanpy._util import _loadLineScanHeader
- Can you examine the imports in sanpy/kym code (what we are working on) and show me where we are usnig the parent package sanpy/ (not sanpy/kym)
- I do not want you to change anything, just suggest.

I am working on a desktop GUI in Python using PyQt5. I want you to make widget with the folloowing criteria:
- A top toolbar to show button and checkboxes. The top toolbar size is fixed. Add a right-click menu to allow user to toggle toolbar on/off.
- A vertical layout with three widgets.
- The user will be able to adjust the height of each widget with a spacer.
- I will then fill in the htree widgets with my own code (my own widgets)
- Color the background of each widget so it is easy to see what is going on for debugging

In TifFileBackend I want a special column call _KymRoiAnalysis
- During runtime, I want an API where given a row, we can construct a KymRoiAnalysis(tifPath) and store it in the _KymRoiAnalysis.
- In the API, if the user request the same row again, we just return the already created KymRoiAnalysis
- This saves us from loading each KymRoiAnalysis more than onece.
- I guess _KymRoiAnalysis column can start as None
- We do not want to save the _KymRoiAnalysis column when we save the csv file.


