# 20250628

- Add a new column "Note" to tif_file_backend
- It will default to '' and always be a str
- In the tif_table_view when the user double-clicks on a "Note" cell I want to enter into edit mode. No other columns in the table should enable edit (user can still toggle checkbox cells)

The Note column is edited correctl on double-click in tif_table_view. It is saved correctly to 'tif_file_backend_state'.csv'. It is not loaded correctly in tif_file_backend, please fix.

Please be more careful with your temporary test files. In this case you should have used the tif_file_backend API to (i) open folder, (ii) edit a note, (iii) save the state csv, (iv) reload state, (v) verify note was modified. Can you write a more permanent test in sanpy/kym/tests to test editing, saving, and loading of Note?

You are overly confident in your results.

In tif_file_backend, we COLUMN_CONFIG dict with an entry for each column. Here are two example columns 'filename' and 'date'
```
COLUMN_CONFIG = {
            'filename': {
            'display_name': 'Filename',
            'width': None,  # Will stretch
            'stretch': True,
            'editable': False,
            'widget_type': None,
            'backend_field': 'filename',
            'tree_visible': True,
            'table_visible': True,
            'sortable': True
        },
        'date': {
            'display_name': 'Date',
            'width': 100,
            'stretch': False,
            'editable': False,
            'widget_type': None,
            'backend_field': 'date',
            'tree_visible': True,
            'table_visible': True,
            'sortable': True
        },
}
```

I want to make our columns more extensible, easier to manage and update in the future.

- Maybe you could use a Python dataclass with all the fields for each column, things like: display_name, width, stretch, etc.
- This dataclass should assign commonly used defaults.
- Then our column definitions would use this dataclass rather than a dict?
- Tell me what you think before editing
- Check that the new strategy won't break setting/getting values in the dataframe (it should not)
- We also need to check that edit/save/load of backend works.

In tif_table, "Copy Path" is not working, for example, it copies "/Users/cudmore/Dropbox/data/colin/2025/mito-atp/mito-atp-20250623-RHC/20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS1.tif.frames/20250312 ISAN R1 LS1 FCCP.tif". It is having the same problem we had earlier with relative versus absolute path construction. Can you fix?

Does not work. tif table _copy path is basically using one like like
```
            full_path = self.backend.resolve_path(relative_path)
```

We are actually copying a path like (same problem) "/Users/cudmore/Dropbox/data/colin/2025/mito-atp/mito-atp-20250623-RHC/20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 ISAN R1 LS2 FCCP.tif"

In a recent test you wrote, I see:
```
  Expected: 20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN R1 LS2 FCCP.tif
  Got: 20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 ISAN R1 LS2 FCCP.tif
```

Each tif file has a relative path w.r.t. the root folder. The relative path is just the actual relative path to the tif, like "20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 ISAN R1 LS2 FCCP.tif"

I don't think there has to be any extra logic to handle the fact that this tif file is in a folder "20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS2.tif.frames"

In the tif file backend state csv, I see relative_path is correct, like:
```
20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN R1 LS1.tif.frames/20250312 ISAN R1 LS1 Control.tif
```

Why did you start thinking that the enclosing *.tif.frames folder is special?

I added a folder of sample data in sanpy/kym/sample-data. Earlier today I had you update a unit test against two absolute paths. Can you simplify those tests and just test again the folder sanpy/kym/sample-data ?

The CustomWidget in tif_viewer_base is meant to be a general purpose widget that we can instantiate and then use the API to add our own widgets.

In CustomWidget, init_ui() it creates 3 widgets. I want the base class Custom widget to not create these widgets. The idea is we have a new class that will use Custom widget to add widgets.

Can you add a file in the same folder, something like tif_viewer.py that has a widget class that uses CustomWIdget to then add some widgets usnig its API? Maybe add three widgets in this new class in tif_viewer?

Now lets start modifying the new TifViewer class.
- I want tif viewer to be instantiated in init with a path to a folder. In our test we can use the new sanpy/kym/sample-data
- I see you created create_file_browser, good. Lets swap in our tif_table_view.
- In create_file_browser() you added a bunch of controls. Lets try and keep it simple and just swap in a tif_table_view.

Now we will work on replacing your boilerplate in 'Image Viewer (QPixmap display with zoom)'. We will be using a custom widget named 'KymRoiImageViewer' in sanpy/kym/interface/kymRoiImageViewer.
- in TifViewer, create_image_viewer() we can swap in our custom widget from
```
from sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiImageViewer import KymRoiImageViewer
```
- This class is constructed with a KymRoiAnalysis
- Each row of our backend tif folder has a KymRoiAnalysis (when lazy loaded).
- Now, on click in the tif_table_view, create a KymRoiImageViewer (where you had you Image Viewer)
- As the user clicks one row and then the next, pay attention to and be sure we refresh the new Image Viewer with the correct KymRoiImageViewer

I have a question on the Cursor ide. Is there a preference file or similar where I can give you instructions that are always applied? Like typing into your "plan, search, build anything" prompt.

I want to tell you to:
- Always use python partial and not lambda when using connect for PyQt signals.
- Never use python addpath, always use python import from packages


Now in the new Tif Viewer, I want you to use some of my custom widgets in create_analysis_panel()

We will be importing:
```
from sanpy.kym.interface.kymPlotWidget import KymPlotWidget
```

KymPlotWidget __init__ takes a KymRoiAnalysis (we have that!) and some hard coded string.

We might also need:
```
from sanpy.kym.kymRoiAnalysis import KymRoiAnalysis, PeakDetectionTypes
```

In the end, I want the create_analysis_panel() to do something like this:

```
        self.sumIntensityPlotItem = KymPlotWidget(self._kymRoiAnalysis,
                                                  xTrace='Time (s)',
                                                  yTrace='f/f0',
                                                  peakDetectionType=PeakDetectionTypes.intensity)
        self.sumIntensityPlotItem.setXLink(self._kymRoiImageWidget.kymographPlot)
```

Can you propose your changes, run the gui to test and then we can commit?


Sorry, I made a mistake. In the tif_viewer we are currently using:
```
from sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiImageViewer import KymRoiImageViewer
```

We do not want to use that, incstead we want to use:
```
from sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiImageWidget import KymRoiImageWidget
```

Did you find that?

In its constructor:
```
def __init__(self, kymRoiAnalysis : KymRoiAnalysis,
                 detectThisTrace:str,
                 kymRoiWidget = None):
        super().__init__(None)
```

I do not think detectThisTrace is used, we can pass ''

Update our new tif_viewer to reflact this change. Use KymRoiImageWidget rather than KymRoiImageViewer

I generally like your boilerplate in TifViewer. Can you remove some of the auto-generated controls in the create_analysis_panel like Analyze and Export Buttons.

The KymRoiImageWidget has a signal named signalSelectRoi. Can you connect that to the sum intensity plot 'sum_intensity_plot_item = KymPlotWidget' slot slot_selectRoi().

Show me proposed changes before editing.


In TifViewer, again, I like you boilerplate for things like the top toolbar: Button 1, Button 2, Option 1, Option 2, Enter Text, and Zoom.

What was the enter text and zoom controls designed for, just curious?

Can you please remove these boilerplate controls. Tell me what controls you will remove before removing them.

In the context of the last question. Please remove zoom control. I am not sure where it was implemented or why? Remove it and tell me why it was added.

The QSplitters are not great in tif_viewer_base and tif_viewer. Are there some hard coded contraints on the widgets that are causing this? How can I fix this?

Wait, no. Can you revert some of those changes. I want the widgets in tif_viewer to be vertical. The last change you made, made them horizontal (not what I want). I still want the user to be able to adjust the size of each widget and do not want widgets to limit their size (specifically to impose a minimum size).

# 20250629

In TifFileBackend we have some initial expensive computation when we first discover a .tif file. Seems to me we do not want to do it in _scan_files(). Once we scan and save, we reload the df with _load_saved_state().
- Can you suggest a system where we only run the expensive computation on each .tif file once?
- Once it is run, the results will be stored in columns of the dataframe (I will add that code).
- We would also want an API to force the rescanning of all .tif files plus the expensive computation.


One common scenario is we will create a TifFileBackend during runtime. The user will then edit the hard-drive files and folders like:
 - Add a tif to existing folder
 - Delet a tif from existing folder
 - Add or Delete folders like 'date -> region'

We then want to updat the existing runtime TifFileBackend object with newly added .tif files (added by user) and remove any now non-existed .tif files (deleted by user).

Does our implementation handle this? IF not, implement it. Once it is implemented can we get a sanpy/kym/tests pytest that will test it.

I see you are running scripts with py_compile. What does that do?

I want you to make a backend class TiffPool in sanpy/kym/tif_pool.py
- Constructor will take a TifFileBackend
- The class will maintain a dataframe that summarizes/pools the analysis of all tif files analyzed by KymRoiAnalysis which saves a smaller df with saveAnalysis().
- Each KymRoiAnalysis.saveAnalysis() saves a csv into sanpy-kym-roi-analysis/<csv_file.csv> where <csv_file.csv> is <base tif>ch0-roiPeaks.csv. This file has the analysis for one peak per row.
- TiffPool should append the csv for each tif into its own 'master df'
- TiffPool needs an api to: When a kymRoiAnalysis is saved, update the rows in master df with new analysis results and append rows if if they do not exist. 

To make the TifPool code more general, we need torefactor@kymRoiAnalysis.py to load previously saved csv analysis. Right now it is not efficient because it loads tif data init init. This is not neccessary, once analysis is saved we should be able to instantiate an KymRoiAnalysis object given just the tif path (but not loading the tif). Can you suggest how to refactor KymRoiAnalysis for this purppose?

Earlier today we started by writing TifPool (or similar). I noted that KymRoiAnalysis needed to be refactored to load analysis only (not the raw tif img data) which we just achieved. Can you run some tests on TifPool to check our new code?

yes, make this change and rerun tests. Basically, when you copy the gold standard data folder (sanpy/kym/sample-data) it also copies tif_file_backend_state.csv which has a relative_path column but I thought the whole purpose of relative_path was to allow the user to move an entire folder of analysis elsewhere on the hdd? Isn't this what you are doing when you copy our gold standard to a tmp directory for pytest to use?

One important point, when we save (and load) tif_file_backend_state.csv the _analysis column needs to be None. In general, we might not want to save the _analysis column at all as it is purely a runtime book-keeping column (e.g. is KymRoiAnalysis loaded for this tif file/row).

You are hallucinating a bit, the saved csv should only have an "_analyzed" column. That is what I am focused on. You mentioned other columns like _KymRoiAnalysis etc.

I see in tif_pool.py we have:

```
                            '_KymRoiAnalysis': None,  # Initialize to None, will be created on demand
                            '_KymRoiAnalysis_Loaded': False,  # Track loading status for UI display
                            '_analyzed': False,  # Track if expensive analysis has been run
```

The simple goal here is to keep track during runtime of loaded KymRoiAnalysis. Wouldn't it be sufficient to have just one column like _kymRoiAnalysis that is set (per row) to the loaded KymRoiAnalysis object? When we save, we never save this column and when we load, we never load this column but it is added and populated with None.

Give me details based on this prompt!

I am working on TifFileBackend _analye_files. I have aded some code like:
```
                self.df.at[idx, 'secondsPerLine'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.secondsPerLine
                self.df.at[idx, 'umPerPixel'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.umPerPixel
                self.df.at[idx, 'numChannels'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.numChannels
                self.df.at[idx, 'imageHeight'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.imageHeight
                self.df.at[idx, 'imageWidth'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.imageWidth
                self.df.at[idx, 'numLineScans'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.numLineScans
                self.df.at[idx, 'numRois'] = _kymRoiAnalysis.numRois
```

I would like each key like 'secondsPerLine', 'umPerPixel' to be added to our column config. When adding, pick more human readable names. Can you do that?


