# 20250719

# new day, new analysis

I have now correctly refactored KymRoiAnalysis and its associated API (which is what you use) to switch from 'ROI Number' (int) to 'ROI Label' (str).

In KymRoiWidget, I have added a signal

```
    # abb 202507
    signalRoiLabelChanged = QtCore.pyqtSignal(str, str)  # (oldRoiLabel, newRoiLabel)
```

This new signal, signalRoiLabelChanged, is emitted when the user edits/changes the 'ROI Label' for an roi.

In KymRoiWidget, we successfully update the ROI Label from the old name to the new name.

When the signal is emitted, the backend KymRoiAnalysis is up to date.

I want you to connect to this signal, signalRoiLabelChanged, in the required widgets like KymTreeWindow, etc.

- update the guis like TifTreeView, etc.
- update the rows in the various pandas dataframes you are maintaining, like main and mean in TifPool.

When KymRoiWidget emits the new signalRoiLabelChanged PyQt signal, I guess the key piece of infomration to propogate this is that KymRoiWidget has a self.path to the underlying tif file? IS that helpful?

## I have some additional comments before I accept or run your code.

In KymRoiWidget, when the signalRoiLabelChanged signal is emitted the only information is (old label, new label). When you update tif pool, it is not sufficient to just update the roi label, you need more granularity. For example, in both TifPool main and mean, you only want to update the roi label column for the tif file associated with the emitting KymRoiWidget.

Two options:
1) Can downstream widgets like TifTreeWindow get the path from the connected KymRoiWidget?
2) Should I add to the signalRoiLabelChanged to include more information to make this easier?

## one more change before I accept.

For today, I do not want you to create new test files like @test_roi_label_signal.py

I find your intermediate pytest test files extremely buggy and not useful except for the exact moment they are created. They tend to break.

Later today, I will update my .cursorrules to remove mention of creating tests. We will instead, make tests as an explicit task.


## accepted the changes and there seems to be an error in your new code

When the user changes an ROI Label in KymRoiWidget and the signalRoiLabelChanged(old roi label, new roi label) signal is emitted. We want to update TifPool and associated GUI like TifTreeView, etc.

I see the following error:

```
 INFO sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiWidget  kymRoiWidget.py _contextMenu() line:1051 -- setting roi label from "3" to "xxx"
 INFO sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiWidget  kymRoiWidget.py setRoiLabel() line:1107 -- setting roi label from "3" to "xxx"
 INFO sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiImageWidget  kymRoiImageWidget.py slot_setRoiLabel() line:289 -- setting roi label from "3" to "xxx"
 INFO sanpy.kym.interface.kym_file_list.tif_tree_window  tif_tree_window.py slot_roiLabelChanged() line:541 -- ROI label changed from '3' to 'xxx' for widget: <sanpy.kym.interface.kymRoiWidget.KymRoiWidget object at 0x165cfdc70>
 INFO sanpy.kym.interface.kym_file_list.tif_tree_window  tif_tree_window.py slot_roiLabelChanged() line:555 -- Updating ROI label for TIF file: /Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/sample-data/20250312/SSAN/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2 Control.tif
 INFO sanpy.kym.tif_pool  tif_pool.py update_roi_label_for_file() line:1329 -- Found relative path for ROI label update: 20250312/SSAN/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2 Control.tif
WARNING sanpy.kym.tif_pool  tif_pool.py update_roi_label_for_file() line:1344 -- No rows found with old ROI label '3' in file 20250312/SSAN/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2 Control.tif
WARNING sanpy.kym.interface.kym_file_list.tif_tree_window  tif_tree_window.py slot_roiLabelChanged() line:591 -- Failed to update ROI label in TiffPool from '3' to 'xxx' for file: /Users/cudmore/Sites/SanPy/sanpy/kym/sample-data/20250312/SSAN/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2.tif.frames/20250312 SSAN R1 LS2 Control.tif
```


## One more suggestion

Looking at the main and mean csv files that TifPool saved. I see the 'ROI Label' column is currently  all able to cast to int. They happen to be 1,2,3,etc. Yet in reality, the 'ROI Label' column needs to be a string.

Can you cast the 'ROI Label' column loaded in TifPool to str?

Can you check if this will effect the GUI in TifPoolWindow etc...


# new task

In TifPool we are grouping rows in main df to create one row in mean df using columns defined in:

```
        # User-specified or default grouping columns
        self._group_columns = group_columns or ['Cell ID',
        'Condition',
        'ROI Label',
        'Channel']
```

