# 20250715

# New Day

I want to add a main menu to the SanPyApp that will allow users to show the Python logging.

I am not sure which menu to put this into, can you suggest? Maybe the main app menu?

When the user selects the menu, we have a PyQt widget we can run from here

```
from sanpy.interface.plugins.sanpyLog import sanpyLog
```

## I would like it in the same menu as we already have the 'About sanpy' action'. I want the log menu to be named 'SanPy Log...'

# yesterday we were discussing the uix in the gui for openFirstWidget. You suggested the checkboxes we had implemented were not optimal. I took your suggestion and implemented custom pyqt disclosure triangles. I used code from a github repo 'Elypson/qt-collapsible-section' and it is now in the @mySection.py file. Can you search the web to see if there is a better option?

# We have some right-click context menus in both TifTableView and TifTreeView. I want to remove the 'open file' menu in the tree view context menu. Can you do that by just commenting out the code?

# I want a new menu action in the main Kym menu for TifTreeWindow.
- I want a menu item/action to 'Show Folder In Finder'. Similar to tif tree view context menu for one tif 'Show In Finder'


# in TifFileBackend we are supposed to save the state of a given folder.

```
The backend automatically creates a `tif_file_backend_state.csv` file
          in the root directory to persist analysis results
```

I am instantiating a TifFileBackend from TifTreeWindow with load_analysis_csv=False.

There seems to be two problems:

1) the TifFileBackend is leading every time
2) on second run, there does not seem to be a saved csv?

# When a user first runs TifTreeWindow and all files are parsed, can we automatically sive the resultant tif_file_backend_state.csv? I want this as an explicit call to TifFileBackend to save the state (is that where the state is being saved to a csv?).


