# colin-20250701

I want to review my next goal.

- TifTableView which accepts user selection of a path will instantiate a TiffFileBackend.
- TifFileBackend (a class to discover tif files) will instantiate a TifPool (class to pool outut of KymRoiAnalysis).
- In TifTableView, it can open a widget that then saves csv results of KymRoiAnalysis, emits a signal which TifTableView recieves and calls the correct API of TifFileBackend/TifPool to update the df in TifPool.

Does this architecture make sense or am I missing something?

I like your idea of TiffPool api, can you implement the suggested functions
```
def update_from_analysis(self, tif_path: str) -> bool:
    """Update pool with analysis results from a specific file."""
    
def refresh_analysis(self, tif_paths: List[str] = None):
    """Refresh analysis for specific files or all files."""
```

test_tif_pool is failing with "assert len(tiff_pool.master_df) == 2". IS this an actual error in tifpool or an error in the test? If error in the test then fix.

 In TifPool, please comment out code having to do with diameter analysis. For now we are only interested in intensity analysis.

Do the same in the test_tif_pool, comment our anythhng having to do with diameter analysis (kep all intensity analysos).

When KymRoiAnalysis is saved, we have a abs path to tif file. Is there a function in TifFileBackend we can call to update just for that tif?

When we call that function in TifFileBackend, we want a simmilar function to update all rows in TifPool for the modified tif file.

Yes, "Would you like me to implement the reanalyze_file method in TifFileBackend for you?" but I have some constraints.
- In TifFileBackend, "reanalyze_file" is actually "update_analysis". Given the tif file that was update, we want to use the lazy loaded version of KymROi Aanalysis to just update a few columns in our TifFileBackend df. The first column would be 'Number of ROIs' (if that column exists, I am not suggesting to create it if it doesn't. I just can't remember if we have that column in TifFileBackend)

I want to finish the code from KymRoiWidget signal signalAnalysisSaved. To make sure we update the TifFileBackend and TifPool. In TifFileBackend we just want to update the number of roi column, and in TiffPool we want to replace all rows correspinding to the modified tif file (that was just saved). Can you help?

I would like to change the behavior of TifFileBackend such that it saves its df (tif_file_backend_state.csv) whenever the underlying df is edited. Like when user edits a Note, new files are found, and deleted files are removed, etc.
- We can then remove the 'Save State' button and all of its logic

What are you thought on this and can you make the changes?

- Rename the 'Refresh' button to 'Refresh Folder'
- I would like the 'Force Re-analyze' button removed and its functionality put into a main menu 'Util -> Rebuild Folder Database 

Continuing with TifPool

- TifPool ads some columns to the dataframe it retrived from KymRoiAnalysis.
- TifPool adds some custom channels
- In some cases, the custom channels are not needed as they are already in the KymRoiAnalysis df (usually just with a different column name).
- TifPool does not have to add column 'Channel Number' as the KymRoiAnalysis already has a 'Channel' column.
- Once we finish that, I will ask for some additional channels in the df generated by TifPool.

Sorry, but this difference between abs path and rel_path is getting confusing, you almost always get it wrong. I see in the the logs for TifPool things like "WARNING - sanpy.kym.tif_pool - tif_pool.py:update_from_analysis:136 - File not found in backend: /Users/cudmore/Dropbox/data/colin/2025/mito-atp/mito-atp-20250623-RHC/20250312/ISAN/20250312 ISAN FCCP R1 LS1.tif.frames/20250312 ISAN R1 LS1 FCCP.tif" All the api call to both TifFileBackend and TifPool really need to decide if they are recieving an abs path (like /Users/cudmore) or a relative path that can be resolved to a full path by the logic in TifFileBackend. Many of the api function in TifFileBackend and TifPool have, for example, a 'tif_path: str' parameter. I think it would be best practice to at least rename that variable to tif_rel_path to make the code more readable.

I want you to modify the columns you append for each KymRoiAnalysis in TifPool
 - In TifFileBackend we have a COLUMN_CONFIG with keys like date, cell_id, region, condition, and repeat.
 - Each time the TifPool is updated, I want these columns added. The values should be pulled from TifFileBackaned
 - This is similar but not equal to your appending of the other columns in addition to what KymRoiAnalysis gives you.
Let me know what you think, show these changes and maybe we can accept!

# 20250703

- remove 'load kymograph analysis' context menu. This is handled in mouse double-click.
- rename main menu 'Util' to 'Kym'
- run some tests to ensure your changes do not break anything.


I want to do some work on our menu system.
- In TifTreeWindow we create a menubar in createMenuBar(). This has the following four menus:
  self.file_menu = QMenu("File", self)
          self.settings_menu = QMenu("Settings", self)
        self.kym_menu = QMenu("Kym", self)
        self.windows_menu = QMenu("Windows", self)

First, we can get rid of "        self.save_table_action = QAction("Save table as...", self)
"

I want to start using the main sanpy menus provided in

sanpy/interface/sanpy_app _buildMenus()

Can you review what code will be needed to have our remaining menus populated into the SanPyApp menus?

We do not want to modify the code in SanPyApp but instead just add to the menus when TifTreeWindow is frontmost.

Add a right-click context menu named 'copy table..." that will copy the currently displayed TifFileBackend displayed (filtered) pandas data frame to the system clipboard. USe the pandas to clipboard functionality.





